# A-Novel-Design-of-Low-Power-Modified-PPN-SRAM-Cell-based-Memory-Array-and-its-Analytical-Reviews-for Cache Memories
# Abstract
Cache memory is a storage space that is essential for storing the repetitive data and the instructions to perform an operation. In modern processors speed has been
increased significantly but memory enhancements are mainly focusing on the ability to store more data in less space and to reduce the latency. The circuit of 10T SRAM cell based on PNN Inverter proposed in this paper is made up of 2 cross-coupled PNN inverters (1 PMOS and 2 NMOS transistors), single ended separate read circuit (2 NMOS transistors) and 2 access transistors (2 NMOS). Different leakage current control techniques like LECTOR and KLECTOR are applied to the 10T PPN and 10T PNN SRAM cells to improve their hold performance and their results are compared. The 8X8 memory array consists of memory cells, row and column decoders, pre-charge circuits, sense amplifiers and write driver circuits. The various parameters like delay, dynamic power, power delay product, leakage power and static noise margin for read, write, and hold operations are measured and compared with other SRAM cells. CADENCE Virtuoso Tool is used for designing the various circuits in 90 nm technology. Simulation results shows that the proposed SRAM cell performs better than the other cells, it is used to build the array structure. The 8X8 SRAM array based on 10T PNN SRAM cell has less power and less delay when compared with other array structures.
